In Ethernet switching network, the existence of redundant links brings loops, which lead to broadcast storms and unstable MAC address table. To prevent loops, IEEE introduced the Spanning Tree Protocol (STP)
This chapter introduced the basic concepts and working mechanism of STP
You should be able to answer the following questions:
-- Why STP is needed in Ethernet switching network?
-- What's the difference between STP and RSTP?
-- How to do STP configuration?
-- Are there any other methods to eliminate Layer 2 loops on the switching network except STP?

-- STP prevents loops on a LAN. Device running STP exchange information with one another to discover loops on the network, and block certain ports to eliminate loops. With the growth in scale of LANs, STP has become an important protocol for a LAN
-- After STP is configured on an Ethernet switching network, the protocol calculates the network topology to implement the following functions
-- Loop prevention: The spanning tree protocol blocks redundant links to prevent potential loops on the network
-- Link redundancy: if an active link fails and a redundant link exists, the spanning tree protocol activates the redundant link to ensure network connectivity
-- STP cannot meet requirements of modern campus networks. However, understanding the working mechanism of STP helps you better understand the working mechanism and deployment of RSTP and MSTP

STP Overview
-- Used on a LAN to prevent loops
-- Device running STP exchange information with one another to discover loops on the network, and block certain ports to eliminate loops
-- After running on a network, STP continuously monitors the network status. When the network topology changes, STP can detect the change and automatically respond to the change. In this way, the network status can adapt to the new topology, ensuring network reliability

MSTP Overview
-- MSTP divides a switching network into multiple regions, each of which has multiple spanning trees that are independent of each other
-- Each spanning tree is called a multiple spanning tree instance (MSTI)
-- An MSTI is the spanning tree corresponding to a set of VLANs
-- Binding multiple VLANs to a single MSTI reduces communication costs and resource usage
-- The topology of each MSTI is calculated independently, and traffic can be balanced among MSTIs
-- Multiple VLANs with the same topology can be mapped to a single MSTI. The forwarding state of the VLANs for an interface is determined by the interface state in the MSTI