UNTAG -> Access0/0/1 || -> TAGGED1 -> VLANIF -> changed -> TAGGED2 -> || Access0/0/2 -> UNTAG

Layer 2 Interface
-- An IP address cannot be configured for a Layer 2 interface
-- A Layer 2 interface does not have a MAC address
-- After a Layer 2 interface receive a data frame, it searches its MAC address table for the destination MAC address of the frame. If a matching MAC address entry is found, it forwards the frame according to the entry. If no matching MAC address entry is found, it floods the frame
-- A physical interface on a Layer 2 switch (has only Layer 2 switching capabilities) is a typical Layer 2 interface. By default, the physical interfaces of most Layer 3 switches (have both Layer 2 and Layer 3 switching capabilities) work at Layer 2
-- Layer 2 interfaces do not isolate broadcast domains. They flood received broadcast frames

Layer 3 Interface
-- An IP address can be configured for a Layer 3 interface
-- A Layer 3 interface has MAC address
-- After a Layer 3 interface receives a data frame, if the destination MAC address of the data frame is the same as the local MAC address, it decapsulates the data frame and looks up the destination Ip address of the data packet in the routing table . If a matching route is found, it forwards the data frame according to the instruction of the route. If no matching route is found, it discards the packet
-- A Layer 3 interface on a router is a typical Layer 3 interface. Physical interfaces on some Layer 3 switches can be switched to Layer 3 mode. In addition to Layer 3 physical interfaces, there are Layer 3 logical interfaces, such as VLANIF interfaces on switches or logical sub-interfaces on other network devices, such as GE 0/0/1.10
-- Layer 3 interfaces isolate broadcast domains. They directly terminate received broadcast frames instead of flooding them