The virtual local area network (VLAN) technology is proposed to solve the security risks and broadcast storm problem
This chapter describes the basic VLAN principles, working principles of different Layer 2 interfaces, VLAN applications, data forwarding principles, and basic VLAN configuration methods
You should be able to answer the following questions:
-- What's the benefit of VLAN technology?
-- How many different kinds of VLAN assignment methods? What are they?
-- How is the data transmitted through access interface, trunk interface and hybrid interface?
-- How to do basic VLAN configuration?

-- VLAN technology, including the functions, identification, assignment, data exchange, planning, application, and basic configuration of VLANs
-- VLAN technology can divide a physical LAN into multiple broadcast domains so that network devices in the same VLAN can directly communicate at Layer 2, while devices in different VLANs cannot

Layer 2 Ethernet Interface Types
-- Access Interface
±±±± Frame receiving
++++++++ Untag frame: adds a tag with the VID being the PVID of the interface and permits the frame
++++++++ Tagged frame: checks whether the VID in the tag of the frame is the same as the PVID of the interface. If they are the same, permits the frame; otherwise, discards the frame
±±±± Frame sending
++++++++ Checks whether the VID in the tag of the frame is the tag of the frame is the same as the PVID of the interface. If they are the same, removes the tag and sends the frame out; otherwise, discards the frame
-- Trunk Interface
±±±± Frame receiving
++++++++ Untagged frame: adds a tag with the VID being the PVID of the interface and checks whether the VID is in the list of permitted VLAN IDs. if yes, permits the frame. if not, discards it
++++++++ Tagged frame: checks whether the VID is in the list of permitted VLAN ID; if yes, permits the frame. if not, discards it
±±±± Frame sending
++++++++ If the VID is in the list of permitted VLAN IDs and the same as the PVID of the interface, removes the tag and sends the frame out
++++++++ If the VID is in the list of permitted VLAN IDs and the same as the PVID of the interface, sends the frame out without removing the tag
++++++++ if the VID is not in the list of permitted VLAN IDs, discards the frame
-- Hybrid Interface
±±±± Frame receiving
++++++++ Untagged frame: adds a tag with the VID being the PVID of the interface and checks whether the VID is in the list of permitted VLAN IDs. If yes, permits the frame. If not, discards it
++++++++ Tagged frame: checks whether the VID is in the list of permitted VLAN IDs. If yes, permits the frame. If not, discards it
±±±± Frame sending
++++++++ If the VID is not in the list of permitted VLAN IDs, discards the frame
++++++++ If the VID is in the untagged VLAN ID list, removes the tag and sends the frame out
++++++++ If the VID is in the tagged VLAN ID list, sends the frame out without removing the tag